docs: exchange integration - Add docs for multi-hosted parties (#424)
hyperledger-labs/splice-wallet-kernel: docs/wallet-integration-guide/src/exchange-integration/extensions.rst

Multi-Hosted Parties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As part of setting up the ``treasuryParty``, you need to sign the

> ``PartyToParticipant`` mapping which defines the set of confirming

Reviewer: This comes out of the blue at this point. 

Consider turning this around:
refer to the default setup where the treasuryParty is hosted on a single node. The explain the options to use multiple nodes.

Push the `PartyToParticipantMapping` down into the technical how-to.

Author: rephrased

nodes for that party as well as the confirmation threshold. The
confirming nodes for the party are essential to keep your party secure
and compromise of them could lead to loss of funds. Refer to the trust
model `trust model
<https://docs.digitalasset.com/overview/3.3/explanations/canton/external-party.html#party-trust-model>`_
for more details.

To guard against compromise, you can setup your party with multiple
confirming nodes and a threshold N > 1. As long as less than N nodes
are compromised, your party is still secured. Common setups are:

1. 2 confirming nodes with a threshold of 2. This provides security
   against a single node being compromised. Note that it does not
   provide availability in case of compromise though: If one node is

>    compromised or down, transactions will be rejected as you will not

Reviewer: simplify by explaining that this has lower availability due to both nodes having to be online.

   be able to reach 2 valid confirmations. To be able to run
   transactions again you either need to bring both nodes back online
   or change the hosting nodes.
2. 3 confirming nodes with a threshold of 2. This extends the previous
   setup to also provide availability in case one of the nodes goes
   down or gets compromised as you can still reach 2 valid

>    confirmations.

Reviewer: I suspect that "valid confirmations" is difficult to understand for the reader that only reads this guide. Let's link to the explanation of the tx phases in the Canton docs: https://docs.digitalasset.com/operate/3.4/howtos/troubleshoot/troubleshooting_guide.html#key-knowledge

Author: rephrased

> 

Reviewer: It would be good to add a section about how to change the party setup:
1. introduce new ``treasuryParty`` with desired setup
2. either transfer all funds to it, or if you have implemented, treasury sharding
   register it as another treasury party

We want to convey that there's the option to start with a party hosted on a single validator node and to transition to mult-hosted setups as time goes on; and risk increases.

It would probably also be good to add a forward reference to party migration coming in future Canton releases.

Party Setup

> ^^^^^^^^^^^

Author: This section is horrible. But we don't have wallet SDK support yet nor docs for the new Canton endpoints. And trying to work around that here feels like a bad investment so I'd rather keep it as is and make sure we get wallet SDK support sooner rather than later.

Reviewer: Agreed. Let's add a ticket to change the docs once the base docs are available on the Canton side.

@daravep will you create docs for the new party hosting endpoints?

.. TODO:: https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/splice-wallet-kernel/issues/272 Update this when wallet SDK support is available

As part of the :ref:`initial party setup <create-an-external-party>`_,
you can specify multiple multiple confirming participants and a
threshold as needed. Note that at this point, the wallet SDK library
does not yet support this so you must go directly through the Canton

> APIs. This is expected to change soon. Until then, the easiest way to do so at the moment is through the Canton

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIs. This is expected to change soon. 

Until then, the easiest way to do so at the moment is through the Canton
```

console. You can find a full reference for all required steps in the
`integration test
<https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/blob/3c9ac9891c03cb06303736d7224bcc01dbd50084/community/app/src/test/scala/com/digitalasset/canton/integration/tests/jsonapi/ExternalPartyLedgerApiOnboardingTest.scala#L183>`_. Note
in particular that you must sign the ``PartyToParticipant`` mapping
not just by your party's key but also by all confirming
participants. This is accomplished through the
``participant2.topology.transactions.authorize`` step in the test.

> DAR Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.dar File Management
```
I currently use that abberviation. Feel free to decide and search and replace in either direction.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Any DAR that you upload, both as part of the initial setup but also
whenever you upload newer versions to upgrade an existing package,

> must be uploaded to all confirming nodes of the party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
must be uploaded to all validator nodes hosting your party.
```

Reading Data and Submitting Transactions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> You can use any of the confirming nodes for reading data of a party

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both nodes serve all transactions for the ``treasuryParty`` and can
thus be used in principle to read them.
```

> hosted on them. However, offsets are not comparable across nodes so it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, offsets are not comparable across nodes so it
```

is recommended that to run Tx History Ingestion against the same node
under normal operations. If you do need to switch nodes, you can do so
following the same procedure used for `restoring a validator from a
backup <validator_backup_restore>`_ to resynchronize Tx History
Ingestion against the offsets of the new node.

Preparation and execution of transactions can also be done against any
of the confirming nodes of the party. However, `Command Deduplication
<https://docs.digitalasset.com/build/3.3/sdlc-howtos/applications/develop/command-deduplication.html>`_
is only performed by the executing node so if you submit across nodes you cannot rely on it.

> .. TODO:: Link to recommended deduplication strategy https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/splice-wallet-kernel/issues/423

Reviewer: I currently do not recommend command dedup at all. Instead UTXO-based dedup is used jointly with the record-time timeout.

Author: My worry is someone searches for deduplication in the Canton docs finds that and then gets surprised it doesn't work. So calling it out as a limitation here seemed prudent. Let me make it clearer that we recommend against using it.

Changing the set of Confirming Nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is highly recommended to setup your desired set of confirming nodes
when initially setting up the party as changes to the set of
confirming nodes are tricky. Adding and removing nodes is possible but
it is a fragile procedure that is not recommended in production at
this point. This will be improved in future releases.

If you do find yourself in a situation where you don't have any other
option than changing the set of confirming nodes, refer to the `Canton documentation <https://docs.digitalasset.com/operate/3.3/howtos/operate/parties/party_replication.html#offline-party-replication>`_ for detailed information on the limitations. At a high level, the limitations are as follows:

Removing nodes is possible by submitting a new ``PartyToParticipant`` mapping but can leave
the nodes hosting the party in a broken state so make sure that those
nodes were not used for other purposes.

Adding new nodes does not just require changing the
``PartyToParticipant`` mapping but it also requires a manual state
transfer of all active contracts to new confirming nodes. This is an

> involved procedure with high potential for issues.

Reviewer: This reads scary. I'd suggest to only explain the option based on allocating new treasuryParties; and the option to remove hosting nodes.

How broken is the removal?

Author: > This reads scary. I'd suggest to only explain the option based on allocating new treasuryParties; and the option to remove hosting nodes.

good idea, will rephrase.

> How broken is the removal?

Not fully sure, checking with Canton

Author: > Not fully sure, checking with Canton

TLDR: Badly tested, not thoroughly analyzed and some known issues but those are around reassignments. So I'll stick to the cautious phrasing here.
